#labels Featured
= How to install as a project in Netbeans =


== 1.) You must have the Python plugin for netbeans. ==
Go to Tools >> Plugins
in the search bar at top right type python
select the python plugin (not the pythonedit if it is there !!)

Click install and follow the instructions, then restart netbeans

2.) Netbeans comes with a subversion client interface preinstalled.
But you will need to specify the svn client to use or download one to use



=== LINUX ===
If you are running linux (which you are suppossed to be for this project )
If you don't have svn - which you can determine by typing "which svn" in a terminal
Then type "sudo apt-get install subversion" type in your root password etc...

Go to Tools >> Options 
Click on the Miscellaneous tab
Click on the Versioning tab
Select Subversion under Versioning Systems in left column
enter /usr/bin/ as the location for the svn executable

=== WINDOWS ===
If you are running Windows, then in order to get the subeversion client
by going to the main toolbar and click Versioning >> Subversion >> Checkout
This will give you the option of downloading the svn client ("Get bundled Subversion 1.5 binaries...") from the repostories
(you will have to be online to do this)
choose that option and click OK

This will install the subversion client so click restart now after it downloads it.
When it restarts it will take a minute for Netbeans to install the new updated plugin.

== 3.) Now You will need to add the account for chimera ==
Now for both Windows and Linux; go to the main toolbar Versioning >> Subversion >> Checkout
Enter into Repository URL: https://csc480-chimera.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
Enter into User: The username given in class
Enter into Password: The password given in class
Check Save username and Password
Click Next -- this will connect you to the google code repository

Now you will be in the "Folders to Checkout" Panel
leave Repository Folder(s) as trunk
leave Repository Revision blank
check skip trunk and checkout only its contents (this just means you don't want the extra directory called trunk you just want everything in it)
in Local Folder, browse to your NetBeansProjects folder
in linux usually /home/<username>/NetBeansProjects
in Windows Vista usually C:\<path to user home dir>\Documents/NetBeansProjects
in Windows XP usually C:\<path to user home dir>\My Documents/NetBeansProjects
leave Scan for NetBeans Projects after Checkout checked
Click Finish


== 4.) This will start the download which will take a while. ==
Next it will ask if you want to open the project - say yes.
Note. The only thing that you will see in the Netbeans project is the stuff that is in the src folder.
The rest is still in the chimera480 folder in your NetBeansProjects directory.






